% !TeX root=.../main.tex

Tables \ref{tbl:25_Size_Prior_B16} and \ref{tbl:25_Size_Prior_F16} shows 25
time series regressions from size-prior portfolios for models \ref{eq:B16} and
\ref{eq:F16} with the momentum factor, respectively. I include momentum in
model \ref{eq:F16} to explore momentum slopes when combined with monthly and
annual value. The main message of the table is that value is insignificant in
the extremes of momentum. Value's disappearance makes some sense for the high-
Prior bucket as the value effect is weakest among high-Prior stocks as shown in
table \ref{tbl:Size_BMm_Prior_chars}. It is more of a puzzle why value is
insignificant in the low-Prior bucket.

Slopes for the two models are very similar. Value exhibits a frown with
coefficients remaining $\sim$0.3 in the middle momentum buckets but largely
insignificant in the extreme momentum buckets. Momentum slopes increase
uniformly from $\sim$-0.7 to $\sim$0.4 as momentum buckets increase.
Profitability slopes also exhibit a frown but, in contrast to value, are
negative and significant in the extremes of momentum but largely insignificant
in the inner momentum buckets. The investment factor offers little to model
\ref{eq:F16} with largely insignificant slopes. Model \ref{eq:B16} struggles
most with the high-Prior bucket with three significant intercepts out of five.
Model \ref{eq:F16} has similar problems in the high-Prior bucket but also
struggles with the small bucket with four significant intercepts out of five.
Beta slopes exhibit a smile across momentum buckets. Beta and variance are
linked as a stock's variance drives its covariance with the market.
Furthermore, profitability helps to describe the returns on ``defensive equity"
strategies \parencite{novy2014understanding}. Such strategies often focus on
low-beta, low-volatility stocks. The negative profitability slopes may be an
indicator of high beta and/or high volatility in the extremes of momentum.
Momentum's interaction with volatility, rather than momentum itself, could
drive at least a portion of the returns in the extremes of momentum.
Value's puzzling weakness in the low-momentum bucket may stem from returns
behaving like the returns on high-beta and/or high-volatility stocks,
rather than low-momentum stocks.

