% !TeX root=../main.tex

Table \ref{tbl:Size_BMm_Prior_chars} shows average value-weighted
characteristics for 32 size-$\text{BM}^m$-Prior portfolios while table
\ref{tbl:Size_BM_Inv_chars} shows average value-weighted characteristics for 32
size-BM-Inv portfolios. The main message of the tables is that monthly value
and momentum's relationship with small, growth stocks' future growth in BE is
the opposite that of annual value and investment. For monthly value and
momentum, future growth in BE increases from 0.31 to 0.62 as momentum buckets
increase. For annual value and investment, this relationship is reversed as the
future growth in BE decreases from 0.59 to 0.4 as investment buckets increase.

Returns across $\text{BM}^m$ and Prior buckets range from -0.01 in the small,
low-$\text{HML}^m$ and low-Prior bucket to 1.88 in the small,
high-$\text{BM}^m$ and high- Prior bucket. Returns across HML and Inv buckets
range from 0.96 in the big, low-HML and low-Inv bucket to 1.43 in the small,
high-HML and low-Inv bucket. The greater variation in returns for
size-$\text{BM}^m$-Prior portfolios is expected given the interaction between
value and momentum. The interaction between value and momentum is also visible
in the variation in returns at each characteristic's extreme. For example, in
low-$\text{BM}^m$ the variation in returns across Prior buckets is much larger,
-0.01 to 1.47 for small stocks and 0.53 to 1.2 for big stocks, than in
high-$\text{BM}^m$ buckets, 1 to 1.88 for small stocks and 1.01 to 1.41 for big
stocks. The same is true of the variation in returns across $\text{BM}^m$
buckets in the extreme Prior buckets. Lower variation of returns across one
characteristic in the extreme buckets of the other mirrors findinings in
\textcite{asness2013devil}.

For both size-$\text{BM}^m$-Prior and size-BM-Inv portfolios, $\text{BM}^m$ is
flat across Prior/Inv buckets and increases uniformly as $\text{BM}^m$/BM
buckets increase.For size-$\text{BM}^m$-Prior portfolios, BM increases as Prior
buckets increase. For example, in the high-$\text{BM}^m$ bucket, BM increases
from 1.51 to 2.91 for small stocks and from 1.07 to 1.53 for big stocks. This
makes sense if we consider a stock that is in the high-$\text{BM}^m$, high-
Prior bucket in July i.e. just after annual BM is recalculated. At this point
in the year, $\text{BM}^m$ and BM are probably at their most similar. If a
stock has relatively high returns in the following months, high Prior, its
$\text{BM}^m$ will decrease as market equity increases while book equity is
held constant by the lack of new financial statements. For a stock to remain in
the high-$\text{BM}^m$, high-Prior bucket, it must have had particularly high
BM in order for high returns not to drag the $\text{BM}^m$ down sufficiently to
take the stock out of the high-$\text{BM}^m$, high- Prior bucket. This effect
is not seen in the size-BM-Inv sorts. For the size-$\text{BM}^m$-Prior sorts,
Prior increases uniformly with Prior buckets and is flat across $\text{BM}^m$
buckets. For the size-BM-Inv sorts, there is little variation in Prior across
either BM or Inv buckets.

Investment decreases across both $\text{BM}^m$ and Prior buckets for both small
and large stocks. In contrast to returns, the effects of each characteristic
are strongest in the extreme buckets of the other. For example, in the low-
Prior bucket, Inv decreases from 0.37 to 0.19 for small stocks and from 0.22 to
0.21 for big stocks. In the high-Prior bucket, Inv decreases from 0.24 to 0.06
for small stocks and from 0.22 to 0.09 for big stocks. In the low-$\text{BM}^m$
bucket, Inv decreases from 0.37 to 0.24 for small stocks and stays flat 0.22
for big stocks. In the high-$\text{BM}^m$ bucket, Inv decreases from 0.19 to
0.06 for small stocks and from 0.21 to 0.09 for big stocks. The interaction of
monthly value and momentum accounts for the variation in Inv in small and big
stocks. In size-BM-Inv sorts, Inv increases uniformly across Inv buckets and
remains flat across BM buckets.

In size-$\text{BM}^m$-Prior sorts, future growth in BE in the low-$\text{BM}^m$
bucket increases from 0.42 to 0.62 as Prior increases. In contrast, future
growth in BE in the low-BM bucket increases as Inv decreases from 0.6 to 0.42
in size-BM-Inv sorts. For both sorts, future growth in BE moves in the opposite
direction to the Inv characteristic. For size-$\text{BM}^m$-Prior sorts, Inv
increases while future growth in BE decreases while for size-BM-Inv sorts, Inv
decreases while future growth in BE increases. Using the dividend discount
model logic of Fama and French, Inv is used as a proxy for changes in BE. This
divergence of logic and data suggests either the dividend discount model is
wrong or Inv is not the best proxy for changes in BE.

Other future growth in BE buckets are largely flat for both sorts. For the
size-$\text{BM}^m$-Prior sorts, the high-$\text{BM}^m$ bucket has negative,
-0.09, future growth in BE for the low-Prior bucket rising to -0.02 for the
high-Prior bucket. This mirrors findings in \textcite{kok2017facts} that
high-$\text{BM}^m$ identifies stocks that will exhibit decreases in BE in the
future. Furthermore, the increase to -0.02 for high- Prior mirrors their
findings that momentum weeds out those high-$\text{BM}^m$ stocks that will
exhibit decreases in BE in the future.
