% !TeX root=../main.tex

Table \ref{tbl:redundant_CMA} shows the spanning regression intercepts and slopes for the
investment factor, $CMA$. The main message of the table is that value and momentum desribe
the returns on the investment factor and that monthly and value and momentum are more
robust to including other factors. Regression 1 uses monthly value, $HML^m$, and momentum,
$WML$, as independent variables. The intercept, -0.04, is insignificant with a t-statistic
of -0.7. Monthly value and momentum are able to describe all of the average return to the
investment factor. Regression 2 uses annual value, $HML$, and momentum, $WML$, as
independent variables. The intercept, 0.08, is also insignificant with a t-statistic of
1.32. Annual value and momentum are also able to describe all of the average return to the
investment factor. While the value slopes are similar for the monthly and annual
specifications, 0.52 and 0.51 respectively, the momentum slopes are different, 0.26 and
0.05.

Regression 3 shows that including the other factors has no effect on the significance,
t-statistic 0.08, of the intercept for B16. Regression 4 shows that when we include the
other factors for F17 the intercept, 0.12, becomes significant.

To say that value and momentum describe the returns on the investment factor does not help
us say why this is the case nor why monthly value and momentum go together so well.
Investment is used as a proxy for changes in book equity in the dividend discount model
intuition of Fama and French. \textcite{kok2017facts} find monthly value helps to identify
which high value stocks will exhibit changes in booke equity in the future.
\textcite{asness2013devil} find that momentum has predictive power of changes in book
equity. The higher momentum slope of regression 1 over regression 2 is partly statistical
\parencite{fama2015incremental}, but may also be because monthly value and momentum
combine to give a better proxy for changes in book equity than investment. With this in
mind, I sort on size, monthly value and momentum and compare characteristics, future
growth in book equity in particular, with sorts on size, annual value and investment.
